This is much stronger. It is now a real engineering spec, not a concept note.

What this doc gets right

It now clearly separates:

what is live
what is stubbed
what is not implemented

That is the biggest improvement.

It also correctly locks down:

the trust loop
the earner model
the universal earner key
the AttributionSession lifecycle
the commission mint gate
the difference between:
OKÜ attribution logic
INVU revenue truth
human-host operational binding
true deterministic POS binding

That is the right architecture.

The most important practical takeaway

Your system is now explicitly saying:

Tier 2 works today
Tier 1 is the real target
the remaining biggest gap is still:
writing the reservation identity into INVU itself

That is exactly the truth.

What I would call out as the 5 most important must-fix items
1. BOUND_TO_POS is currently too optimistic

Right now, your own doc says:

BOUND_TO_POS can mean a local-only bind
but not a confirmed INVU write

That is dangerous language for operators and finance.

Recommendation

Split this into two states:

POS_BIND_INTENT_RECORDED
POS_REFERENCE_WRITTEN

Or similar.

Because today, “BOUND_TO_POS” sounds like INVU definitely has the reference, and your own doc says that is not always true.

That is the single most important naming correction in this spec.

2. citas/add is the real critical cutover

This remains the core blocker.

Until citas/add is truly wired with:

num_cita = booking_code
comentario = trust string
descripcion = human summary

you are still relying on:

local OperationalBinding
host correctness
Tier 2 recovery

So the real implementation priority remains:

wire citas/add properly and make the matcher read those exact fields back

3. Matcher must keep legacy fields during migration

Your own spec says it, and it is correct:

Do not remove:

observations
customer_note
other legacy reference-bearing fields

until a clean reporting window proves they are no longer used.

That migration discipline is essential.

4. Token rotation is now officially a known operational risk

This doc correctly identifies:

no scheduled 15-day token rotation
manual re-save only

That is not just a convenience issue. It is a trust-loop reliability issue.

Recommendation

Promote token rotation from “TODO” to a scheduled deliverable.
It should not remain a passive risk.

5. Streetside host surfaces are still incomplete

This is important because it affects the commercial workflow directly.

You have fixed the Operations Board, but not yet:

/host/streetside
/api/v1/host/bookings

That means part of the earner-facing or host-facing system is still blind to attribution context.

That needs to be treated as a real product gap, not a cosmetic one.

One subtle but important contradiction to resolve

Your spec says:

the trust loop closes deterministically today at Tier 2
but it also says the biggest remaining risk is human dependence at table open

Both are true, but the wording should be tightened.

Better framing

Today, the loop closes operationally deterministically, but not yet POS-native deterministically.

That distinction matters.

Because Tier 2 is deterministic inside OKÜ, but not yet fully embedded into INVU’s own record.

That is the exact reason Tier 1 still matters.

What I would add to this spec immediately
Add one explicit section:
“Current Production Truth”

Something like:

In the current build, commissions can be trusted when:

the booking has a valid AttributionSession
the restaurant host correctly seats and binds the table
OperationalBinding exists
the INVU close arrives and matches at Tier 1 or Tier 2

In the current build, commissions are not yet fully POS-native because the reservation reference is not yet confirmed written into INVU through citas/add.

That would prevent future confusion.

What I would prioritize next, in order
Priority 1

Wire citas/add with:

num_cita
comentario
descripcion
Priority 2

Update matcher to read:

num_cita
comentario
descripcion
legacy fields
Priority 3

Rename BOUND_TO_POS to distinguish:

local bind intent
confirmed INVU write
Priority 4

Implement token rotation job

Priority 5

Extend attribution visibility to:

/host/streetside
/api/v1/host/bookings
Priority 6

Backfill historical reservations into AttributionSession where feasible

Final judgment

This is now a serious and usable technical spec.

It does not yet mean the loop is fully solved, but it finally makes clear:

what works
what does not
what is compensating for what
where the trust risk still sits

That is exactly what was missing before.

Short verdict

Strong spec.
Main remaining blocker: real citas/add write-through into INVU.
Main naming fix needed: BOUND_TO_POS is too strong for current reality.

If you want, I’ll turn this into a single execution roadmap with:

“do now”
“do next”
“blocked on INVU”
“rename for safety”